here we go again you rush around your
house getting your bag ready for work
while you gulp down the last of your
coffee
your annoying alarm didn't go off so
you've been in a rush all morning
just as you're about to leave you hear a
shriek coming from outside
you sprint onto the street maybe someone
needs help
you look around but nothing seems wrong
all you can see
is an upset looking woman frantically
tapping at her phone
she suddenly turns to you and says
something about the battery
but she's so worked up that it was hard
to understand
maybe she missed an important call and
she needs a charger
you offer to help and run back inside to
get your charger
when you unplug your phone you realize
that it's out of charge too
weird it should have been on 100 after
charging all night
you think back to your broken alarm
clock and wonder whether there might be
a local power outage or something
you get even more worried when you check
your laptop it won't turn on either
how are you going to give your big work
presentation now
whoops you realize that the woman
outside is probably still waiting for
the charger
you rush back out but she's gone the
street now looks like
some kind of weird disaster movie set
it's filled with angry and confused
pedestrians
you managed to pick up on a few words
about power and batteries
and it's clear that something has gone
very wrong
a guy that lives across the street is on
the floor holding his knee and rubbing
his head
with his hoverboard lying a couple of
feet away on the ground
looks like he took a big fall you wonder
why
everything is going so wrong for
everybody the man
who usually delivers your papers cycles
up next to you
he's panting so much that he can barely
get a sentence out
the battery on my bike is broken i guess
i'll have to ride up all these hills the
old school way now
a friend from work runs up to you saying
her car stop
you try to help her but nope the battery
isn't working at all
it looks like everyone else is having
the same problem
the road is completely deserted too
you try your car too but that's not
working either
just as you were deep in thought
thinking about how to go about your day
without your car
a giant hunk of metal shoots down from
the sky and explodes into a million
pieces
a drone just fell out of the sky the
street is completely filled with fire
so you and your friend run into your
house at least it looks like you don't
have to worry about going to work today
anymore
your friend says none of her electronics
are working
so you run around your house checking
your things you go into your bathroom
and try the trimmer
nope electric toothbrush also nothing
what about that cool remote control car
you got for your 12th birthday
you look under the bed yup the car's
there and lots of dust too
you take it out and try nothing although
that could be just because it's over a
decade old
you pull out a bundle of outdoor lights
hmm
what will the holidays look like if
these don't work
you feel uneasy knowing that the smoke
detector won't work anymore
how will you know if any of your
technology goes wrong and starts a fire
well at least most of it won't be
working enough to cause a fire anyway
now
time to check the most important thing
the tv
you pick up the remote and as expected
nothing
you wonder if there's even a way to turn
it on without the remote
after searching for a button a little
while you switch it on
you can't figure out why only some
things seem to be working
the new stations are all talking about
one thing
apparently all the batteries in the
entire world have stopped working
that explains why the tv is fine all of
the channels showing emergency news
broadcasts
with clips of chaotic traffic problems
and people despairing over their broken
devices
there's a banging at your door and you
realize that your wireless doorbell
won't ring anymore
that's actually good now you don't even
have to pretend you're not home when
that annoying neighbor comes to visit
speaking of neighbor hopefully his
guitar amplifier won't work anymore
you might finally be able to sleep in on
saturday
mornings oh no your new wireless
headphones will be useless now
you'll still be paying for those for a
couple more months and
can't even use them another one of your
friends
ryan is at the door luckily he's a bit
of a genius
so he might be able to help figure out
what's happened
it freaks you out a bit when he tells
you how bad things are looking in the
world
batteries are very important for our
society most of the technology
we use needs batteries to function but
we rarely pay much attention to them
or at least not until our tv remote
stops working
ryan begins to explain that the first
battery was invented at the beginning of
the 19th century
it stores chemical energy that gets
converted into electricity that we use
to power things
you cut him off why would you need to
know about that
how can you get your phone working again
he shakes his head
apparently scientists all over the world
are looking into the problem
but it seems like all batteries have
just stopped working completely
and they have no idea why the batteries
we mostly use are lithium-ion ones
the type you find in smartphones and
laptops
these can be easily recharged and offer
a smooth and reliable power supply
but not anymore they're just useless
chunks of metal now
the disposable ones are broken too and
now
all batteries have stopped working
there's no way to store power at all
ryan looks scared and broken it looks
like the world is heading back to the
19th century again
you thought this would all get fixed but
it begins to dawn on you
how much the world will change without
any way to store power
you get why ryan looks so desperate and
your face
begins to pale what will people do now
no digital watches tablets laptops
calculators
will we have to memorize phone numbers
or learn what's 14 times six
how will we tell time who will wake you
up in the morning
at least it'll be a lot easier to get to
sleep early without a smartphone
will people have to get up every time
they want to turn on their tvs now
will they have to socialize without
their phones when sitting in bars
no more carrying laptops around and
working on the go
you won't be able to jot things down on
a word document anymore
you'll have to get used to writing
instead of typing
pen paper you haven't seen those since
high school
oh no you might have to start reading
books again
there won't be much else to do your
kindle isn't an option anymore
so you'll need to look into buying some
real books
oh that could get expensive people will
have to savor every moment
because they won't be able to take
pictures of anything anymore
there will be no more electric scooters
or bikes
electric cars won't be of much use
either well
it's not like you could afford one but
still it was good to know that some rich
people out there had the option to get
one
what kind of cars are companies going to
produce now
even boats have some parts charged on
batteries
so they may be useless now too
maybe you'll get to see the return of
giant wooden galleons
like the pirates used to sail on and
what about planes don't they need
batteries too
looks like that overseas trip to spain
will have to remain on the bucket list
no more listening to music when you're
on public transportation
are you gonna have to talk to people now
what about social media you won't be
able to waste time scrolling through
your feed anymore
how will you ever get to work again with
no car
you'll have to run miles every day and
get up early
you make a note to yourself to look into
getting a horse and cart
and you'll have to remember in which
order they go
think about it yep today was an assault
on batteries
it's time to start some new habits now
or revive some of those
old long forgotten ones